The clock example with many MVCs.
Here we are inside an empty project.
I added the Mini and VC framework and imported the examples.
Let's take a look at the clock version with many MVCs.
I will start with the sample execution.
Here.
There is no real user interface, but there are some debug log statements in the debug log console and
show the elapsed time since the scene is open.
This is.
There is no user interface, no input functionality.
This is the first time we see the file structure.
I have the example script that is on a game object in the scene.
I have the clock mini-class that is created and contains all the concerns.
Then I have the classes related to each concern, model, view, controller and service.
An additional concept that we haven't discussed yet is context.
As we take a look at this code, let's look at the role of context.
Here is the mini example itself.
This is about behavior.
At startup, we instantiate the mini-class object and call initialize.
Here is the clock mini-class.
This extends the mini framework class and VCs.
You can think of this object as a parent object that contains all four concerns.
This is a generic class in which we pass the strong type of the context model, view, controller.
and service.
Here is the initialization with the mini MVC structure.
All the main parts involved have an explicit initialization call.
This is a great place to enter the code that needs to happen exactly once when the system wakes up.
What do we do here?
First, we make sure it is already initialized and then we create the context model, view and controller.
And the service.
Note that the constructors of each accept no parameters except the controller.
This is one of the first code examples where we see that the controller is the most powerful and capable.
Of the concerns, because the controller is the glue that holds the view and the model together
let's pass these references so that it knows how to handle and treat them.
Finally, we follow the best practice: each concern is initialized.
Notice that everything takes context and we haven't talked about context yet.
Let's take a look.
Context is a class in the framework.
It implements the AI context interface and the rest of the system looks for that interface.
Then you are free to create your own alternative to the context by simply implementing that interface.
But for my uses, I find that this basic implementation usually serves my needs.
It has only two things in it.
It has a model locator and a command manager, both of which are publicly available from the outside, and
are created at instantiation time.
What is the role of the contact?
You can think of the context as the messaging system that all four concerns refer to.
What are the things that each concern can do with it?
Using the command manager, they can listen and invoke any command.
This is the messaging part and the model locator.
While a more advanced concept allows any model to be registered and retrieved.
So any of the problems could register a pattern or listen for pattern events.
Below, in the constructor, we see that these two parts are instantiated and, as an experiment
experimental, I have a context locator.
This allows any scope to add a context like the one we see here, and any other scope can get that context
if necessary.
In more complex examples, we will see.
This might be useful if your project has two different mini MV axes and you want to communicate between
For this first example, we will not deal with this complexity, so you can ignore this detail.
This concludes the high-level discussion of the entire example.
We see that we have the parent mini-object that has the four concerns within it, and each of them has
A reference to the high-level context.
It is important to understand these basic concepts.
Review this part of the course for better understanding.
Now let's look at each of the problems and see how they work.
We've already seen the context, so let's look at the model.
This is the first concern we saw in the code.
Let us then take a closer look at how it is constructed and see that all the other concerns in this sample
and most of the other problems in the other sample follow a similar pattern.
So in future discussions, we will not cover this in such detail.
Note that the clock model extends the basic model.
Now, the extension of any base class is optional.
It comes with some free functionality, but you are free to approach it in an alternative way if you wish
you desire more flexibility.
So we have suggested a convention, but there is the possibility of finding your own solutions.
Let's take a look at the basic model.
The base model implements the I model, the I model implements the I model.
It is possible that future versions of the framework will do something custom for the model, but
for now merely mimics what any other concern is capable of doing.
The I concern is able to initialize and accept a context, so any class that implements this interface
is able to initialize itself by accepting a context in the initialized method, and thus is able to store and
maintain a public property to that context.
This is what all four concerns are able to do Now, while the suggested usage patterns of how to
of usage pattern is different from that of a controller, know that under the hood they are equally
capable.
Again, there is maximum flexibility.
Taking a step back, we see that the clock model extends the basic model, which we have just explored.
The rest of the operation of the clock model.
You can think of the model as the repository of all runtime data.
What does the clock example need?
It needs the current time.
And then, in our example, it keeps the delay.
Between each tick of the clock.
For us it will be one second, so we will see that one second is displayed, then 2 seconds, then 3
seconds and so on.
The model, like any concern, has initialization and the only custom functionality we do here is initialize
The value of our observable variables.
That's it for the clock model.
Let us now look at the clock view.
The clock view implements the eye view, and just as we saw earlier, the eye view is able to have an initialization
And take a context, that's all.
So we won't explore that further.
We don't need any base functionality, so we don't use any base class.
We implement the view on our own.
We have some properties, some fields, and we handle the initialization.
This is basic material for any problems.
The only custom thing we do here is to use context.
This is our first use of seeing that we access the command handler inside and listen to a custom context
called the "time changed" command.
Whenever the command handler invokes this command, we will be able to listen to it here.
This is the first opportunity to see Command Manager in action.
Recall the basic difference between commands and events with commands.
We do not need to know who will send this type of message.
We subscribe only to the command handler intermediary and handle it that way.
It is a decoupled solution.
Every concern implements.
The request is initialized.
This is more of a best practice that I use, rather than something specific to MVC frameworks, but I limit myself to
a method that easily checks to see if we are initialized and if not, throws an exception.
We will see this used at the beginning of almost every method of every concern.
This is a simple method to check that public methods are not called too early.
Now, whenever the command handler sends the related event, we are handling it here, we can
we can see that the first thing we do is make sure that we are actually initialized.
We expect every time the scene is executed to be initialized, good.
This is just an additional check that ensures that the lifecycles are running correctly.
The only real custom functionality is debugging.
Disconnect.
Remember that we don't have an on-screen UI and we're not using any Mount behavior.
So our way to talk through the View is to use a debug log statement.
This does not mean that you need to perform these steps every time you debug log in your projects.
You do this as freely as in any typical project.
This is just a contrived example, created to show some sort of user feedback without any mono behavior.
or user interface, so the example is quite simple.
Let's next take a look at the clock service.
The clock service extends the basic service.
As with all problems that extend an optional base class, all it does is initialize
and the context setting that we have seen in other problems.
This service is designed to load something and then notify the system when it has been loaded.
We then have a custom unity event.
The actual data that is loaded by this service is the time delay.
This is made available here.
Within initialize, we do the basic configuration of concerns.
The only really custom thing we do here is initialize the time delay somewhere outside of this
Will be called the scope load.
What we see here is very similar to the functionality of the non-mini MVC version that we saw
before.
It simply loads a local text file, extracts the string value and types it in.
It is an int and stores it for us.
One thing to note is that once the data is loaded, the loaded event is triggered.
We have not yet seen what scope this event will consume.
Next.
Let's take a look at the controller.
This will be the most complex aspect of this example and most controller examples where
we will see most of the code, the clock controller extends the basic controller in this case.
In all cases where a base class is used, this is optional.
Of course, you can create your own class that implements the controller.
But here we have a basic functionality that will take care of initialization and data acquisition.
In context.
Since the clock controller deals with some specific topics, I decided that the basic controller is a
generic and you pass the strong type values for the view and model service.
In the constructor, we pass the model view and service to the base class.
In the initializer, we do the typical thing that all concerns do, that is, we handle the initialization and the
And take the context and store it.
The only really custom thing we are doing here is listening to the model, subscribing to one of the observables
and listening to the service, so we know when the service is loaded.
Now, as we talked about the concept of observables and saw the source code of the model, this is
the first place where we saw Unity event subscribing from one of the observable classes.
So whenever the value of the time model is set by any scope, this event on changing the value is triggered.
Once again, the use of observables is optional but recommended for everyone.
With properties within the model, you get this automatic paradigm of being able to set the value and be
able to listen when that value has been set and changed.
So when the service is loaded, we update the model based on what the service got from its external server.
data.
And then we start the clock ticking.
The clock ticking works in a very similar way to how we have seen it do in the non-mini version of NBC.
However, there is a key distinction.
Earlier I talked about how unity collapses the model view controller in different areas of the unity engine,
one of which is the behavior of mono itself, which is quite powerful and spans many aspects.
Now, in the non-mini MVC example, I used a CO routine to call repeatable code, because this
example does not use mono behaviors.
I no longer have the same access to the CO routine.
There are many ways I could fake it.
I chose to have a separate class, in which you can go into more detail if you like, and
all it does is call repeatable code.
For this example I call it Clock Helper.
The operation is outside the scope of this example, but know that this is a workaround for calling the code
repeatable code.
And that was one of the workarounds I chose.
One key thing to note is that here in the controller, whenever the delay occurs, which is
every second, I am setting the pattern data.
So the controller sets a value on the model.
And since we listened to the unity event for each time the value of the model changes, we get this
callback.
So here we are in the controller, subscribing to the model changes and handling them, turning them into
commands.
This is a very common pattern that we will see throughout MVC.
We take a somewhat decoupled event and translate it into a highly decoupled command.
Recall that commands can be observed and heard from any concern, as long as they have a single function.
access to context, which all our concerns do.
So whenever you see a command invoked, you can think of it as a message like a radio station that any concern
can listen to.
It is a very powerful concept.
It provides the flexibility to communicate to and from any interest.
Now, although this is very flexible, we want to follow the basic conventions, where the controller is the main part
that will send and receive these commands, there will be exceptions and we will see them
in the examples, deciding exactly how to use unity events and how to use commands in your project is
part of the art of using MVC.
In the previous slides I suggested conventions.
You are free to follow them.
I just recommend being consistent if exceptions apply.
So that's it.
We have addressed the creation of the context, model, view, controller and service.
Then we initialize them all.
So from the timeline point of view, we have a monarch behavior in the scene and on its initialization
created the minis within the minis initialize.
It created what we're seeing here, connecting all these different pieces and then initializing like this
particular example, because I'm familiar with how it works, I know that when the controller is initialized,
that's what starts the ticking and starts the example.
That's it for the code overview.
This is probably the densest code example.
Although it is a simple example, there are many concepts here.
We are taking all the theory that we have seen in the previous slides and putting it together.
Let's take another look at the sample running here in the scene.
I selected a game object, as we can see in the inspector, which contains the sample.
run the example.
Execution occurs at each time delay, which is 1000 milliseconds, which means you get one tick per second.
Our debug log statement is displayed in the console.
This is the complete example.
We have seen all the concepts of model view controller service.
How they are initialized, how the context is the glue that helps the messages to each other.
And you have a very good basis for seeing the theory we learned applied in real C-sharp code.
This is our first complete example.
See the code running with mini MVCs.
Although the use case is very simple, all we are doing is running a debug log statement every second.
We see that we have many concepts to do this.
This is the first example you see when you use a tailored architecture, like many MVCs,
looks verbose.
It feels like we can't do it in one class, like we did with the non-mini MVC.
version?
But remember, we want to invest in our software.
We want to use these best practices, and it won't be in a ten-minute example that we really understand
full power ten days into a project, ten months into a project, having the correct code separation
that you get with a tailored framework is incredibly powerful and pays off.
That's it for now.
Thank you.